US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has returned to Israel to consult with
officials over the conflict with Hamas
he's arrived in Tel Aviv for his second
visit in less than a week he's scheduled
to meet Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu as well as president Isaac
Herzog along with their War cabinet
Lincoln has been visiting leaders in
several other countries in the region in
recent days as well including Jordan
Saudi Arabia and
Egypt I'm very pleased pleas to welcome
former US ambassador Gerald firestein
he's uh focused heavily on
counterterrorism in his work in the
region and he's now with the Middle East
Institute thank you so much for taking
the time to speak with us we now have uh
blinkin back in Israel in your view what
needs to happen on the Diplomatic front
to end this
war well it's a pleasure to be with you
uh uh today and uh I think that there
are a couple of things going on one of
course um as your reporter mentioned is
uh concerned about the potential
expansion of the of the conflict and so
uh I think that secretary blinkin as
well as others uh in the administration
are working very hard uh to uh to deter
uh any uh any thought on the part of
hisbah or Iran uh that they should jump
into this conflict uh and then the other
thing is and clearly uh in his travels
throughout the region uh secretary
blinkin has heard a great deal of
concern about the humanitarian situation
inside of Gaza and and I think that the
other aspect of the uh of the US
approach is going to be to ensure uh
that the humanitarian uh situation is
addressed uh to try to get relief
supplies into Gaza uh and also of course
to uh pressure the the Israelis uh not
to uh go in in a way that inflicts huge
numbers of innocent Palestinian casual
do you think we are seeing that kind of
uh pressure what exactly do you think
they will be telling their Israeli
counterparts regarding the humanitarian
crisis unfolding in
Gaza well we've seen uh we've seen uh
some uh some result of of us
intervention uh you know the
announcement by the Israelis that they
were restoring water to the southern
Gaza area um and also of course the uh
the intense uh diplomatic engagement
with both the Israeli and the Egyptians
uh to try to get relief supplies in so
uh and and the other uh the other aspect
of course is to pressure the Israelis as
we've seen some result uh that whatever
they do in the Gaza Strip must be in
accordance with the internationally
recognized laws of war now I also want
to get your view here um Israel has made
very clear that their goal is to
eliminate Hamas what kind of challenges
do you think they will be facing uh in
routing a terrorist group from the Gaza
Strip well I think that you know to to
be entirely uh Frank about this uh one
doesn't eliminate terrorist groups uh we
of course in 2001 said that we were
going to eliminate Al-Qaeda Al-Qaeda is
still there we've said that we're going
to eliminate Isis Isis is still there uh
these kinds of organizations don't get
eliminated uh there is no military
solution to this uh to this situation uh
and of course the more that the Israelis
are responsible for uh you know for
indiscriminate uh military action uh the
more deeply embedded these organizations
become uh within the population so it's
a it's it's a situation where the harder
you try often the the worse the outcome
but tell us more about that Israel is
saying it is going into to Target
hamas's leaders um even with the
military might of the IDF you don't
think that they would be POS it would be
possible for for them to go in with
enough Force um to stop Hamas from
launching attacks from
there uh over the long term no I I don't
uh I don't believe that that you can
succeed militarily in accomplishing that
kind of an objective they can certainly
um identify and Target uh Hamas leaders
uh they've announced that they've killed
at least one senior Hamas Commander uh
they can do that uh but these uh these
organizations reproduce themselves they
they they fill uh they fill these
positions others come along and and
really the only solution to this
situation is really a political solution
uh and the Israelis need to be careful
that as they go forward and and respond
to this disaster in Israel uh this
tragedy uh that they uh leave room
within the Palestinian the larger
Palestinian Community not Hamas but with
Palestinians that they leave space to
resume a diplomatic political
negotiation that will hopefully lead to
a permanent sustainable peace and
looking also at the role of other actors
in the region when you are um looking at
a possible political solution where do
you see a peaceful Horizon as as you
have put
it well I I think you know of course uh
the uh the Abraham Accords countries UAE
Bahrain Morocco have a potential role to
play uh Egypt and and Jordan also uh and
uh you know up until last week uh it was
really the uh the Saudi dialogue with
Israel which included a large component
of measures that were aimed at improving
the lives of Palestinians uh and I think
that that that that perhaps was one of
the motivations for Hamas was to untrack
that uh that dialogue because they
feared uh that a political solution that
strengthened the Palestinian Authority
would weaken them over the long term
well thank you so much I'm afraid that's
all we have time for Ambassador firin we
really appreciate you taking the time to
speak with us on DW
news thank
you